README.md, before:

# TESTAPI

Simply dummy project in Django & DRF. The aim is simply to mess around new features in Django or else, test out performance,
do some funky stuff to learn, essentially.

## Developer setup

Here's a non-exhaustive list of server dependencies:
postgresql-10 postgresql-server-dev-10

Use virtualenvwrapper to create a Python 3 environment:

```
$ cd path/to/testapi
$ mkvirtualenv -p python3.6 testapi
(testapi)$ setvirtualenvproject $VIRTUAL_ENV $(pwd)
```

Install python dependencies:

```
$ pip install --upgrade pip
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

To create a database for the local application, run this helper script to create the app user and database.

```
$ sudo -u postgres bin/setup-db
$ sudo -u postgres psql -c "ALTER ROLE testapi WITH PASSWORD '$SOME_PASSWORD'"
```

Run the migrations:

```
$ ./manage.py migrate
```

## Integration tests

Run:

```
$ pytest -svv --reuse-db
```

## Open questions and TODO:

- I do not appreciate giving CREATEDB privilege to the DB user, in a more proper setup (with containers for instance) this
might not mean much. I considered redefining the django_db_setup() fixture to only run migrations and create the DB only in
the bin/setup-db script but this not flexible (for instance if I would like to parallelize pytest).

## Deployment

The usual setup would be nginx + uwsgi. The uwsgi configuration is at the root of the project, uwsgi.ini. Otherwise simply
create the virtualenv, copy and adjust the sample nginx configuration as well as the systemd configuration.

Commit message:

refactor all configuration to use environment variables

README.md, after:

# TESTAPI

Simple dummy project in Django & DRF. The aim is simply to mess around new features in Django or else, 
test out performance, etc.


## Developer setup

Here's a non-exhaustive list of server dependencies:
postgresql-10 postgresql-server-dev-10

Use virtualenvwrapper to create a Python 3 environment:

```
$ cd path/to/testapi
$ mkvirtualenv -p python3.6 testapi
(testapi)$ setvirtualenvproject
```

Install python dependencies:

```
$ pip install --upgrade pip
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

To create a database for the local application, run this helper script to create the app user and database.

```
$ sudo -u postgres bin/setup-db
$ sudo -u postgres psql -c "ALTER ROLE testapi WITH PASSWORD '$SOME_PASSWORD'"
```

As for the configuration, you will need to setup some environment variables, those at the end of the uwsgi.ini.
With virtualenvwrapper the ~/.virtualenvs/testapi/bin/postactivate script is already there for such a use-case.

Run the migrations:

```
$ ./manage.py migrate
```

## Integration tests

Run:

```
$ pytest -svv --reuse-db
```

## Open questions and TODO:

- I do not appreciate giving CREATEDB privilege to the DB user, in a more proper setup (with containers for instance) this
might not mean much. I considered redefining the django_db_setup() fixture to only run migrations and create the DB only in
the bin/setup-db script but this not flexible (for instance if I would like to parallelize pytest).

## Deployment

The usual setup would be nginx + uwsgi. The uwsgi configuration is at the root of the project, uwsgi.ini. Otherwise simply
create the virtualenv, copy and adjust the sample nginx configuration (server-config/nginx_sample). uWSGI can be configured
in a few ways, I would recommend creating a systemd service :

```
$ cp server-config/testapi.service /etc/systemd/system/testapi.service
$ systemctl enable testapi
$ systemctl start testapi
```
